.TH Call\ Commander 1 "August 2007" Linux "Linux Audio Manual"
.SH NAME
Call Commander \- A Telephone Caller Management System

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBCall Commander\fP is a high-performance call management and screening system
targeted for use in professional talk radio environments.  Facilities
for the monitoring and control of a range of popular broadcast telephone
systems are provided, as well as means of communication between talent,
producers and other interested parties.

.SH SUPPORTED TELEPHONE SYSTEMS
At present, \fBCall Commander\fP supports the following broadcast 
telephone systems:

.TP
.B Gentner/Comrex TS-612 Multiline Telephone System
.TP
.B Telos 100 1A2 Key Interface Module
.TP
.B Telos 100 Direct Interface Module
.TP
.B Telos ONEx6 Broadcast Telephone Interface
.TP
.B Telos TWOx12 Multiline Broadcast Telephone System
.TP
.B Telos Series 2101 Multi-line Multi-studio Broadcast Telephone System

.SH COMPONENTS
\fBCall Commander\fP consists of four seperate component programs, as 
follows:

.TP
.B ml
The Call Commander User Interface Program.  Provides a comfortable, graphical
interface for communications, call management and precise timekeeping and 
cueing.

\fBMl\fP is highly configurable, with virtually every aspect of its
operation and appearance customizable by means of configuration file 
directives.  For more information, see the \fBml(1)\fP manpage.

.TP
.B mcs
The Call Commander Call Skimmer.  A specialized audio recorder that
can be used to automatically record telephone conversations under the 
control of the associated telephone interface.  See the \fBmcs(1)\fP 
manpage for further details.

.TP
.B mcidmd
The Call Commander Caller ID Monitoring Daemon.  A specialized screening
client, this runs in the background and is responsible for recording and
taking action Caller ID information from incoming calls.

.TP
.B mld
The Call Commander Virtualization Daemon.  Provides a mechanism by which
telephone systems that lack a native TCP/IP interface can be interfaced
to \fBml\fP, \fBmcs\fP, \fBmcidmd\fP and \fBmcs\fP.  One host system 
running \fBmld\fP can provide virtualization services for up to eight 
telephone systems attached via local serial ports.  See the \fBmld(8)\fP 
manpage for further details.

.SH AUTHOR
Fred Gleason <fredg@paravelsystems.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ml(1),
.BR mcs(1),
.BR ml.conf(5),
.BR mld(8),
.BR mld.conf(5)
