.TH ml 1 "August 2007" Linux "Linux Audio Manual"
.SH NAME
ml \- The Call Commander Telephone Screening System user interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
ml [OPTION] [config-file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMl\fP is the user interface component of the Call Commander Telephone
Screening System.  It is extensively customizable, with virtually
every aspect of its operation controlled by means of a configuration
file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --dump-strings
Start normally and dump raw communication strings to standard output.
Basically useless except for debugging purposes.
.TP
.B --help
Print a short usage message and exit.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Output version information and exit.

.SH USER INTERFACE ELEMENTS
\fBMl\fP provides many of the same controls found on a modern Telos
Desktop Director, plus facilities for displaying caller information,
Host/Producer communication and precise timekeeping/cueing.  These
elements include:
.TP
.B Line Buttons
These are used both to command a phone line into a particular state as
well as to show the current state of a line.
.TP
.B Hold Buttons
These are used to place all of the active, unlocked lines on a
particular bank on HOLD.
.TP
.B Drop Buttons
These are used to hang up all of the active, unlocked lines on a
bank. 
.TP
.B Busy Out Button
Places all unused lines on the system into BUSYOUT mode.
.TP
.B Delay Dump Button
Causes the associated profanity delay system to dump (if so
configured).
.TP
.B Record Button
Places the associated recording device into RECORD mode (if so
configured).
.TP
.B Next Button
Put the call currently designated as NEXT (indicated by a flashing
check mark on it's corresponding Line Button) on-air on the Main Bank.
.TP
.B Keypad Button
Pulls up a touch-tone keypad for dialing a call (see the BUGS section,
though).
.TP
.B Flash Button
Causes the currently selected line to go briefly on-hook (often used
to access functions on an underlying PBX system).  NOTE:  This button
is applicable only for use with a Gentner/Comrex TS-612 system.  It
has no function with other systems.
.TP
.B Screen Button
Toggle the screening mode of the attached telephone interface.  NOTE:  
This button is applicable only for use with a Gentner/Comrex TS-612 
system.  It has no function with other systems.
.TP
.B Mute Button
Mute the on-air caller audio of the attached telephone interface.  NOTE:  
This button is applicable only for use with a Gentner/Comrex TS-612 
system.  It has no function with other systems.
.TP
.B Conf Button
Place the attached telephone interface into conference mode.  NOTE:  
This button is applicable only for use with a Gentner/Comrex TS-612 
system.  It has no function with other systems.
.TP
.B VIP Button
Place the attached telephone interface into VIP mode.  NOTE:  
This button is applicable only for use with a Gentner/Comrex TS-612 
system.  It has no function with other systems.
.TP
.B Broadcast Segment Clock
A combined twenty-four hour clock and segment timer, the Segment Clock
is capable of providing accurate and precise cueing information to
both Talent and Producers by means of information passed to it in the
configuration file.
.TP
.B Message Box
A chatroom-style interface widget, the Message Box provides a means
for Talent, Producer and any other interested party to maintain
communications even when mics are open. 

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE 
Upon startup, \fBml\fP will look for a configuration file in the
following locations/order.
.RS
.TP
Command Line
The file whose name is passed as the last argument on the command
line.
.TP
$HOME/.mlrc
The file \fB.mlrc\fP in the user's home directory.
.TP
/etc/ml.conf
The file \fBml.conf\fP in the /etc/ directory.
.TP
<bundle-dir>/Contents/Resources/ml.conf
The file \fBml.conf\fP in the application bundle (OS X only).
.RE
.RE

If no configuration file is found at any of the above locations,
\fBml\fP will use a default configuration compiled into the program.
When a configuration file is found, further searching
stops.  The format of this file is documented in the ml.conf(5) man
page.

.SH
HOTKEYS
Every button displayed by \fBml\fP is capable of being mapped to a 
corresponding hotkey, thus allowing operation independently of a mouse or
other pointing device.  These mappings are defined in the configuration 
file (see the \fBCONFIGURATION FILE\fP section above).

In its default configuration, the hotkey mapping for \fBml\fP is as
follows:

.TP
.B F1 - F12
Place lines 1 through 12 on the air on the Main Bank.

.TP
.B SHIFT-F1 - SHIFT-F12
Place lines 1 through 12 on the air on the Conference Bank.

.TP
.B CONTROL-F1 - CONTROL-F12
Display the Caller Information dialog box for lines 1 through 12.

.TP
.B HOME
Place all active, unlocked calls on the Main Bank into Hold.

.TP
.B END
Drop all active unlocked calls on the Main Bank

.TP
.B SHIFT-HOME
Place all active, unlocked calls on the Conference Bank into Hold.

.TP
.B SHIFT-END
Drop all active unlocked calls on the Conference Bank

.TP
.B ALT-D
Dump the profanity delay (if so configured).

.TP
.B ALT-N
Place the next screened call on air on the Main Bank.

.TP
.B ALT-R
Toggle the associated recording device on/off (if so configured).

.TP
.B ALT-B
Toggle the busy-out status of all idle lines.

.TP
.B ALT-K
Bring up the DTMF keypad for dialing.  You should make sure you've
selected a line before doing this.

.TP
.B ALT-F
Flash the switchhook on the currently selected line.  This works only with
the Gentner/Comrex TS-612, and has no effect with other systems.

.TP
.B ALT-S
Toggle the screening mode on the telephone interface.  This works only
with the Gentner/Comrex TS-612, and has no effect with other systems.

.TP
.B ALT-M
Mute caller output audio on the telephone interface.  This works only with
the Gentner/Comrex TS-612, and has no effect with other systems.

.TP
.B ALT-C
Toggle the conferencing mode on the telephone interface.  This works
only with the Gentner/Comrex TS-612, and has no effect with other systems.

.TP
.B ALT-V
Toggle VIP mode on the telephone interface.  This works only with
the Gentner/Comrex TS-612, and has no effect with other systems.

.SH AUTHOR
Fred Gleason <fredg@paravelsystems.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR callcommander(1),
.BR ml.conf(5),
.BR mcs(1),
.BR mld(8),
.BR mld.conf(5)








