.TH mld.conf 5 "August 2007" Linux "Linux Audio Manual"
.SH mld.conf
mld.conf \- Configuration file for the Call Commander Telephone Screening
System Virtualization Daemon
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMld.conf\fP contains the configuration information for the 
\fBmld\fP program, a component of the Call Commander Telephone Screening
System.

.SH FILE FORMAT
The file format consists of \fIsections\fP,
each of which contain configuration information in the form of keyword/value
pairs.  Each section begins with with the name of the section in [] brackets,
followed by zero or more keyword/value pairs, with the keyword and value seperated by an '=' sign.  Lines starting with ; are ignored, as are blank lines.

For example:

.RS
.RE
[Section1]
.RS
.RE
Keyword1=value1
.RS
.RE
Keyword2=value2
.RS
.RE
Keyword3=value3


.SH SECTIONS/KEYWORDS
Following are the sections and keywords for \fBmld.conf\fP:

[mySQL]
.RS
This section deals with configuration for the SQL server used
to provide system configuration and call logging.

Hostname=\fI<hostname>\fP
.RS
Where \fI<hostname>\fP is a valid DNS or \fB/etc/hosts\fP name for the
SQL server to be used for caller logging.  This \fImust\fP be a name
-- a dotted-quad IP address will not work!
.RE

Loginname=\fI<user-name>\fP
.RS
Where \fI<user-name>\fP is the user name of the account on the SQL
server to be used to access the CallCommander database.  By default,
this is \fBmluser\fP.
.RE

Password=\fI<passwd>\fP
.RS
Where \fI<passwd>\fP is the password to be used to access the
\fI<user-name>\fP account on the SQL server.
.RE

Database=\fI<db-name>\fP
.RS
Where \fI<db-name>\fP is the name of the database to use on the SQL
server.  By default, this is \fBCallCommander\fP.
.RE

ServerType=\fI<server-type>\fP
.RS
where \fI<server-type>\fP is one of the following values corresponding
to the type of SQL server being employed:

.RS 
\fBQMYSQL3\fP -- mySQL
.RE

.RS
\fBQODBC3\fP -- ODBC-compliant (includes Microsoft SQL Server)
.RE

.RS
\fBQOCI8\fP -- Oracle Call Interface
.RE

.RS
\fBQOSQL7\fP -- PostgreSQL v6.x and v7.x
.RE

.RS
\fBQTDS7\fP -- Sybase Adaptive Server
.RE

.RS
\fBQDB2\fP -- IBM DB2, v7.1 or higher
.RE

By default, this value is \fBQMYSQL3\fP.

NOTE: Settings for SQL servers other than mySQL have not been well tested.
.RE
.RE


[MCallMan]

.RS
DetailsRefreshInterval = \fI<interval>\fP
.RS
Where \fI<interval>\fP is the interval, in seconds, between automatic
refreshes of the Call Detail list in MCallMan.  Setting this value to
\fB0\fP turns off automatic refreshes.  The default value is \fB10\fP.
.RE
.RE


.SH AUTHOR
Fred Gleason <fredg@paravelsystems.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR callcommander(1),
.BR mld(8),
.BR ml(1),
.BR mcs(1),
.BR ml.conf(5)
