.TH mskimmer 1 "February 2003" Linux "Linux Audio Manual"
.SH NAME
mskimmer \- The Call Commander Call Skimmer

.SH SYNOPSIS
mskimmer [OPTION] [config-file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmskimmer\fP is a specialized audio recorder that uses one or more audio
adapters to record telephone conversations.  Recordings are done under
the control of an associated telephone interface, as configured by
\fBmskimmer\fP's user interface and configuration file.

\fBMskimmer\fP features two recording decks, one for each telephone bank.
Each deck consists of a set of line buttons, a RECORD button, a STOP
button, a record timer and a file name display.  Selecting a line
button has the effect of causing the associated deck to begin
recording should that line be placed on the air on the appropriate
bank.  When all selected lines are taken off air (either by being
placed on hold, or by being hung up), the recording stops.  It is also
possible to operate the deck manually by means of the associated
RECORD and STOP buttons.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -v, --version
output version information and exit.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE 
Upon startup, \fBmskimmer\fP will look for a configuration file in the
following locations/order.
.RS
.TP
Command Line
The file whose name is passed as the last argument on the command
line.
.TP
$HOME/.mlrc
The file \fB.mlrc\fP in the user's home directory.
.TP
/etc/ml.conf
The file \fBml.conf\fP in the /etc/ directory.
.RE
.RE

If no configuration file is found at any of the above locations,
\fBmskimmer\fP will use a default configuration compiled into the program.
When a configuration file is found, further searching
stops.  The format of this file is documented in the ml.conf(5) man
page.  This file is also used by the Call Commander user interface
program, \fBml(1)\fP.  The \fI[Skimmer]\fP section of the
configuration file is used to control \fBmskimmer(1)\fP's operation.

.SH BUGS
On the Telos TWOx12, password support is not implemented as of firmware
version 2.02.  Thus, attempts to connect to this unit should \fIalways\fP
use an empty password.

.SH AUTHOR
Fred Gleason <fredg@paravelsystems.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR callcommander(1),
.BR ml(1),
.BR ml.conf(5),
.BR mld(8),
.BR mld.conf(5)








